So I'm gonna make a statement here,
and that's the fact that,
while unit tests are great, I would argue
that they're often not the 20% of tests
that we really should be focusing on.
Back to the Pareto principle,
like a lot of us are introduced to unit
tests as our entry point into
testing because, oftentimes,
it's sort of the simplest one
to wrap your mind around.
So, the proverbial example is like
function at AB, test that A plus B equals,
if A is one and B is one,
make sure it's two,
this is like the proverbial unit test.
But as we know, while this gives
the developer the sense of comfort and
safety that their utility
function works correctly, or
their component may work correctly,
at the end of the day,
the person that really decides whether or
not our app actually works is the user.
There's a saying where if you
can only have two tests for
your entire application, especially
when it comes to these enterprise level
applications, there are two that I always
basically demand that they create.
And one is that, can the user login?
and two, can the user pay us?
Now, this might seem a little tongue and
cheek, but if you think about it,
these two functionalities often represent
the core piece of the entire business.
If either of these features break,
there is no business, right?
There there's a real measurable dollar
impact on your applications at the end of
the day, if the user can't log out great,
that's a bug, we can figure that out.
And, if certain functionality doesn't
work, we can figure that out, but
if users can't log in and they can't pay,
you don't have a business and
you won't have an app to write for.
And so it's a little tongue and
cheek, but the truth is,
is that it's funny how very often, when it
comes to these applications, they don't
test for this, there is no test that
reliably checks these things every time.
But there might be a lot of unit tests,
but there's nothing checking this thing
that is so
critical to the actual application itself.
And so this is why it's important to what
we were talking about earlier regarding
that Pareto principle.
Is that we spend all this time on these
unit tests, which again are useful for
shoring up our code and making it safe
over time for longevity purposes.
But the real bugs that we need to at least
make sure we cover are the ones that
could really tank the business, and
oftentimes those are the ones
we're not paying attention to.
And so these two tests or that 20%, they
represent 80% of the value that testing
would provide in enterprise
level application.
And so if you're thinking like, well,
my application doesn't receive payment,
what I'm basically trying to emphasize
here is what is that critical path that if
I took down that one feature and
it broke, chaos would break loose,
everyone will need to hop on,
there would need to be a hotfix.
If you can figure out
those critical paths,
make sure those things are being tested.
And so as a result rather than
entering at the unit level,
I actually represent [LAUGH] I'm
recommending flipping that on its head and
actually starting with end-to-end tests.
Now, this is a little bit controversial
because most teams are most applications
avoid E2Es entirely,
there are a couple of reasons for this.
And that's one, well, traditionally,
when most people have experienced with
end to end tests,
they take a long time to run.
And in the testing where they call,
they're often flaky,
which is another term for
being unreliable.
And that complexity often leads to the
fact that here are no E2E tests at all,
or if there are, people ignore it.
They'll be like,
the E2E test pipeline's broken, yeah,
but we need to push it out,
let's just ship it.
I think the moment you're ignoring
broken tests and that they're failing,
that's definitely an indication
that something is wrong, and
either those tests need to get straight up
deleted or we need to reconsider things.
Now, in my opinion,
one of the reasons end to end
tests are typically considered
a behemoth for people to approach
on an enterprise level is that we want to
be called perfectionist about everything.
We want to cover every scenario
with end to end tests,
meaning we got to cover every
single breakpoint, right?
Whether it's mobile, tablet, laptop,
widescreen, let's cover it all,
we gotta make sure it works everywhere.
And let's not forget about
cross browser testing, right?
Chrome, Firefox, Safari,
IE, IE11, Opera and
any older browsers that we think,
our users are using,
we need coverage on everything and
our one tool must do it all.
And then on top of that, then it's like,
we have to make sure we're
covering everything, right?
Code coverage, we wanna make sure we see
those green bars lit up all the way,
we want that 100%.
And it's no wonder that at the end,
everyone's just like,
this is way too much work.
Right?
This is terrifying,
because ,you put all this work,
you tried to do all of these things,
and then it just breaks and
then you're just like, what was that for?
And so what I wanna propose to you here is
when you're thinking about your test for
your enterprise applications,
again, this is the 100% method,
you want everything to be perfect.
So I say, move back from that,
we don't need 100%, and arguably,
you don't need all the browsers, either.
Yes, you might have some users
that are on older versions of IE,
but at this point we need to focus on that
Pareto principle, what is our 20% gain
that 80%, and oftentimes it boils
down to one, maybe two browsers.
And so your end-to-end test suite might
be as simple as we have a ton of desktop
users on Chrome, and we know that a lot
of our mobile users are on Safari.
So these are our two critical paths to
test, this is what we optimize for.
Yes, we might have some things fall
through on the other browsers and devices,
but at the same time, if you don't
have end to end tests at all, or
ones that you can trust and rely upon,
you basically have no tests at all.
And so it's funny seeing how some
people will argue they want it all, but
if you have nothing,
this is monumentally better.
And so, when it comes to
running end to end tests, also,
tooling in particular in the past
like with things like selenium, for
example have also been notoriously
difficult to work with.
But there's been a lot of advancements
in the field, so the two frameworks that
are very popular in the view
ecosystem are Cypress and TestCafe.
And so, for those who haven't used either,
definitely check them
out as end to end tools.
Cypress in particular,
I have personal experience with that and
I know a lot of people
really love Cypress.
Is that, when you're running the test,
it actually shows you what's happening in
the browser, so, you can debug your end
to end tests, seeing your app running,
which is in my opinion, pretty huge.
So you can basically time travel and
skip, but
again, I could do a whole
workshop on testing.
So, as you think about in E2E,
try give Cypress a try,
give TestCafe a try, that is I
would say the best place to start.
And actually the one thing I will plug
about Cypress which I've heard a lot of
people say is that Cypress
makes testing fun.
The way that especially
as front end developers,
we love building things that
we love front end is because,
that visual feedback is very immediate
from if you run or something on the page,
you see it immediately and
you get to that feedback loop is so quick.
Well Cypress basically does the same
thing with end-to-end test as far as
creating a fast.
Feedback loop that allows you to see
tests and then actually interact with it
in the way that doesn't make you
dig through terminal logs and
try to figure out which line is broken.
So, yes, can't plug Cypress enough,
they do a fantastic job.
So, in terms of writing our end to end
tests, first thing first that most people
make the traditional mistake of is that
they try to maintain state between tests.
Meaning you create dependency of like,
first I want you to on this test,
I want you to click a button, and that
button will generate a token, and then
in this test, I'm gonna take that token,
and then I'm gonna do something with it.
This is probably the biggest mistake that
people make when it comes to end to end
tests because in the event one breaks,
basically you have this whole chain
effect where something's flaky.
Because integration tests can be tricky
when it comes to databases going down or
connections going out for example.
And so if you need a token for a test,
just have that test independently,
generate its own token or
figure out some sort of stub or mock for
dealing with that.
But that way the more you can decouple
your end to end test, the more reliable
they will be, and you won't be like well,
the reason this test failed is because,
three chains down the line,
this test really needed to do this thing.
Make sure everything tests accordingly and
then that way it'll be easy instead
of a line of red across
everything that's breaking,
you know exactly what's breaking.
So, in this regard thinking of our
end-to-end test a little bit like unit
tests where we're trying to achieve
one thing without the dependency
of everything else,
is a really important way to be successful
at writing those end-to-end tests.
And the other thing, I will call is more
of a pro tip less of a best practice,
but in general, I would recommend when
you're doing element selectors is
to avoid using them with CSS classes.
And the reason for this is because, it's
an extremely brittle way to keep track of
what element is doing what, as we know,
eventually code changes, CSS changes.
And if you attach it to a CSS class,
you're basically attaching your
testing hook to the styling, which
context wise has nothing to do with it.
Whether the button uses a red
property to color it red or is blue,
doesn't matter the test,
the test cares that it's a button,
the test cares that the user clicks
the button and this thing happens.
And so similarly, this is why the advice
here, is to really think from the user's
perspective, and
really think about the intent.
And so, a popular alternative to CSS
classes is the data test attribute,
so you might be like data test
ID equals submit payment button.
And so that's pretty good, because, what
you've done now is you've extracted this
attribute that can theoretically then be
attached to any element that even if it's
not actually a button, for example,
it would still click on the right thing.
And so this is a perfectly
valid way to do it, but
I would recommend think one step further.
Because, at this point,
we're still thinking from
the perspective of developers, right?
We're thinking of how we can swap
things out and make it abstract.
But it's the end to end test,
if the real impact that we're looking for
is to make sure that things work for
users, then, actually selecting
a button element that has a text submit
payment, is if you think about it,
this is actually the correct the optimum
selector you're looking for.
In this case, then you're actually
replicating the user's intent, and
if you think about it from another way,
this has an added benefit of
basically creating test accessibility
to some extent as well.
Because now, if you have DIV
that's attached to submit payment,
that's not gonna work from
a screen reader's perspective,
you could do roll button.
But we wanna try and think from the user's
perspective, and so as a result,
selecting elements from an accessible
perspective in a way that they're
looking for a link that does,
that has this text, that does this thing.
This is probably the better route to
approach when it comes to ensuring that
things work from the users perspective and
not just from our perspective.